# Project 0: Getting Real

## Preliminaries

>Fill in your name and email address.

Hong Zhang <hong.z@rioslab.org>

>If you have any preliminary comments on your submission, notes for the TAs, please give them here.


>Please cite any offline or online sources you consulted while preparing your submission, other than the Pintos documentation, course text, lecture notes, and course staff.


## Booting Pintos

>A1: Put the screenshot of Pintos running example here.



## Debugging

#### QUESTIONS: BIOS 

>B1: What is the first instruction that gets executed?

`sub    %eax,%eax`

>B2: At which physical address is this instruction located?

`0x00007c00`

#### QUESTIONS: BOOTLOADER

>B3: How does the bootloader read disk sectors? In particular, what BIOS interrupt is used?

The function `read_sector` in the `loader.S` tells us how the bootloader read disk sectors. The bootloader takes a drive number in DL (0x80 = hard disk 0, 0x91 = hard disk 1, ...) and a sector number in EBX, and reads the specified sector into memory at ES:0000. Returns with carry set on error, clear otherwise. Preserves all general-purpose registers.

The BIOS interrupt `INT 13H` is used. 

>B4: How does the bootloader decides whether it successfully finds the Pintos kernel?

The bootloader reads the partition table on each system hard disk and scan for a partition of type 0x20, which is the type that we use for a Pintos kernel.

>B5: What happens when the bootloader could not find the Pintos kernel?

Firstly, the bootloader will try every possible drive to find the right sector. Then, checks the possible kernel partition. If there is no driver remaining or no matched partition, a string of `Not found` will be printed, which is a boot failure message from BIOS.

>B6: At what point and how exactly does the bootloader transfer control to the Pintos kernel?

The bootloader uses `ljmp * start` to transfer execution control to the Pintos kernel, in which the entry point is `start()`. 

#### QUESTIONS: KERNEL

>B7: At the entry of pintos_init(), what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?

0

>B8: When `palloc_get_page()` is called for the first time,

>> B8.1 what does the call stack look like?
```bash
#0  paging_init () at ../../threads/init.c:169
#1  0xc002031b in pintos_init () at ../../threads/init.c:100
#2  0xc002013d in start () at ../../threads/start.S:180
```

>> B8.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?

`0xc0101000`

>> B8.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?

```bash
(gdb) p init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]
=> 0xc000ef9f:  int3   
=> 0xc000ef9f:  int3   
$3 = 0
```

>B9: When palloc_get_page() is called for the third time,

`palloc_get_page()` will not be called for more than twice in my machine.

>> B9.1 what does the call stack look like?
>>
>> 

>> B9.2 what is the return value in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 

>> B9.3 what is the value of expression `init_page_dir[pd_no(ptov(0))]` in hexadecimal format?
>>
>> 



## Kernel Monitor

>C1: Put the screenshot of your kernel monitor running example here. (It should show how your kernel shell respond to `whoami`, `exit`, and `other input`.)

#### 

>C2: Explain how you read and write to the console for the kernel monitor.
